NaNoGenMo entry 2017

She of Shadows

This will be a Tracery that generates an entire pulp novel
based on fixed story beats and a very strict formula
even more strict than the Doc Savage formula.

Shadow Girl is our main protagonist, who lives in shadows
and travels through them. The narrator is a shlub who gets
mixed up in her affairs and relates them without playing a
major role in them. He is somehow slightly omniscient,
maybe because she tells him what she has done from time to
time, but mostly as a convenience.

Generative devices that might be useful:
Travelogue: Shadow Girl will travel through the multiverse
and each location will have notable features that can be
remarked upon. Some devices may get propagated into the
action, for instance if a certain god requires cedar boughs
then we'll save that as a macguffin.

Battle scene: name the characters and throw them at each
other like Garos and Fodos. These can be padded out way
longer than GvF, and like DBZ they can be parceled out
in groups of events that each play out like their own
pulp episode - like how during Frieza arc Vegeta and King
Kai keep calling the match long before it's over.

Massacre: throw a bunch of mooks at SG, and show how she
can tear through them, like the hammer scene in Oldboy.

Stealth scene: she has to sneak past some unnamed mooks.

Stealth massacre: she takes out mooks one by one.

Color character: Like the Tiny Space Adventure Twitter bot.
Just some passing reference to some peculiar thing that
SG encounters during her travels through the multiverse.
She might run into them while she is looking for clues.

Digression: This can be like a whole pulp story in itself,
maybe told by one of the characters that she meets along
the way. These could affect the main story in small ways,
as long as we're careful not to give anyone multiple origin
stories.

Intelligence: This is a prelude to travel, and may be part
of a digression. Someone tells SG, or she somehow finds out
(maybe by eavesdropping) where in the multiverse she should
investigate next.


First act:

First line: introduce our hero and swat her with a fistful
of trouble. She comes rushing into Narrator's home, in the
middle of some new trouble, and gives some vague hinting
to N. Briefly recap who she is and how N met her, along
with a little bit about her powers and the multiverse.

We're in-media-res here, she's telling the narrator about
how she found this trouble and how she started to deal with
it. She'll also introduce the major players, supernatural
entities that are interested in the focus. Set the focus
here, but don't introduce it yet, only show its effects.

She needs something from N. Maybe a blood pact, maybe some
device that she has left with him, maybe something weirder
like a memory or a feeling. Maybe she just needs some
comfort and encouragement.

Minor entities arrive at N's home, and SG battles them.

Defeating the minor entities reveals that the trouble
goes deeper into the multiverse, and SG leaves the
narrator to go investigate. Narrator watches her via their
special psychic bond that they share because they're banging.

Second act:

Here begins a fairly rambling portion where SG travels through
the multiverse meeting characters and going to places. We need
to be a little careful not to send her to places that are too
similar one right after another, but from book to book it should
be fine for her to visit similar places. Office buildings,
labyrinths, weird combinations of the two, Winchester houses,
far weirder things.

Along the way there should be a good variety of encounters:
Travelogues
Color characters
Informants
Digressions
Stealth ghost missions
Stealth massacre missions
Midboss battles

During nonviolent sections, heap on trouble: a ticking clock,
innocents in danger, a pursuing force too powerful to fight,
a fleeing enemy, a trail being destroyed, etc.

Midway point: another plot twist. Someone important but not
essential gets killed off, or betrays her.

Third act:

Things are incredibly dire. She starts burning through plot
tokens built up during the first two acts. Gods and demons are
getting involved. Deus ex machinae fly like arrows.

This should be part of a nested structure with the second act,
with a stored up cache of items and favors that she will call
on one by one in order to deal with the problems that she meets
during the third act. Each type of solution should have its own
story template, and we should vary it up, making sure that earned
favors, surprise favors, plot tokens and coincidences all show
up and don't repeat.

SG gets in a fight she can't win. Some god or demon isn't happy
with her meddling, or is in between her and success. This will
be the longest and most drawn-out action scene in the book.
We're going full DBZ here, with lots of back-and-forth, each
phase of the fight reads like its own little pulp story where
the hero is thrown to the ropes and seems almost dead.

The act ends on a cliffhanger: she is completely defeated, and
the villain is gloating, ready to destroy her. Her life is spared
through some pyrrhic miracle like a Cell Games-style bargain,
the villain's desire to further torture her, or some equally bad
force removing her to serve its own ends.

Fourth act:

Shadow Girl is at her nadir. She is imprisoned, and something terrible
is about to happen to her. Allies have betrayed her. Narrator looks
on helplessly, and tries to figure out some way to help her. He is
forced to watch powerless as the villain torments her. I'm sure that
writing the torture scenes will be a great deal of fun.

She uses some power internal to herself to escape. She might reach deep
into herself to find the strength to break her chains, or talk her way
out, or take advantage of a temporary weakness, or somehow sneak away,
or maybe even do something crazier like mind-controlling her captor.
Whatever she does, it has to come entirely from inside her, and it has
to be something that she did not have access to until she reached her
absolute limit.

Now we get another fight, but this time the tables are turned. SG is
stronger, and the villain gradually realizes they are outmatched. There
can be a few little switches because SG will at this point realize that
she is more powerful, and it might briefly go to her head, but for the
most part she is just rising up to the level she needs to rise to,
she can overpower the villain but it takes everything she's got.

Now we have to wrap it up. The villain is defeated, but what does that
mean? What has SG accomplished? She is still in the fortress, and
needs to escape, which could be hard as tired as she is. Are the mooks
glad to be liberated, or angry that their protector was killed?
Has the mystery been resolved? No, she has gone on this long and
rambling adventure that has lead her to something so much bigger than
the original mystery that it has been forgotten. She's too tired now,
so she returns to N, and they rest together for a while.

End with the narrator suggesting that she'll get bit by wanderlust
again before too long. The biggest mystery still hangs over her,
and she knows that eventually she'll have to go out and try to
face it once again.


Chapters:
! = combat
? = stealth

Her Arrival and New Trouble
Strangers Attack!
Farewell Again

The First Clues
(2nd act stuff)
Betrayal

An Act of Despiration
Another Favor
An Unexpected Savior
A Dire Warning
The Boss Attacks!
Shadow Girl's Counter Attack!
Boss Unleashed!
An Ally Appears!
Boss On the Ropes!
The Minions Arrive!
Ally Defeated!
Shadow Girl Ascends!
Shadow Girl Defeated!
A Pyrrhic Miracle

In The Belly of the Beast
N's Gamble
Limit Break!
She Is Limitless!
Boss' Despiration!
A Gloat Too Far!
Her Final Blow!
Fleeing the Fortress?
More Questions than Answers
A Day of Peace